The Javadoc YouTube stream to stream interface provides the methods to support sequential and parallel
aggregate operations on a sequence of elements.
In addition to Stream, which is a stream of object references, there are versions of streams for primitives
in stream, long stream and double stream.
Collectively, these interfaces are referred to as streams.
At a minimum, a declaration of a stream is shown below stream is a generic interface and an example
below.
We specify the stream will consist of string elements.
Let's explore the different ways you can create a streaming code.
We need a new project and intelligence of constraint so you can see on screen.
Going to create a new class in this project.
Call it stream creation example.
All right, so this code is demonstrating some of the static methods on stream which create streams.
So looking at the code here, we've got stream that empty being used online, 16 streams of being used
online, 19 streamed out of nullable, being used on line.
Twenty five, a stream to generate being used on line 31.
They're also demonstrating that you can create a stream from any collection that implements the collection
interface.
So I'm using the for each terminal operation, which I'll discuss later, to create some output.
All right.
So let's run this now.
So it's interesting to note that you can create infinite streams using, generate and then apply a limit
to the stream is a limit, which again I'll discuss a bit later.
Javani and introduce the static method, iterate.
There are two versions.
Each accepts a seed value, an initial value to start with at a unary operator, which represents the
next value, starting with the seed value.
One of the versions also has a predicate parameter which allows you to limit the stream.
So let's have a look at this by placing some more code in to our main method.
So a lot forty seven, we're creating a stream with a unary operator based lambda expression, the numbers
five, 10, 15, 20, etc. are basically an infinite stream there.
And then online 52, we're using dot limit to limit the infinite stream they could say they're replacing.
There is ten and the additional Kitazawa, we scroll down a little bit.
Busy stream that iterate again on line fifty seven, this time to create a finite stream limited to
Vali's less than or equal to 100.
And then finally we're using the DOT for each method to print out the valleys to run this.
And there's the airport at the bottom of the screen.
All right, next, let's take a look at the streambed, a concat method to code toothpaste in.
Now, this kite loops through command line arguments, splitting a sentence by what space, then creating
a stream of words is in a stream of method.
Each stream is concatenated to arge stream through a self referencing assignment.
They can run this code from the command line if you wish, or pass some parameters by editing the configuration
intelligently.
The other thing you can do, anything I want to show how to do that can actually add a prompt here.
So obviously, if they may use program arguments before here, but what we can do there is put a dollar
prompt to that twice.
And it's all set up by intelligibly to prompt for two sentences while executing the code syllable,
hard coded programming and arguments like we've used before.
So if you run this now.
They can say intelligence asking us.
Let's try to be test one, two, three.
In a second, one, Will had five, six, seven.
By the way, quite necessary here.
Five, six, seven.
And this, the airport, as you can see at the bottom of the screen, it might make sense to build a
stream one item at a time, in which case you could use streambed up, build a method to create a stream
the a builder of a specific type object and access its accept method to add an element.
So there's some more code to take a look.
So here's what I'm doing is I'm demonstrating using a stream of beware of top string to create the word
stream one word at a time.
So let's run this.
We used the same input as last time.
Test one, two, three.
And for the second month, five, six, seven.
The output from this car is exactly the same, given the same inputs that have achieved it.
With the Kurds starting on line 81.
In summary, the stream of static factory methods as shown below, we've got the builder method which
returns the stream to builder angle brackets TESO of a specific type, so returns a builder for a stream.
We've got the concat method there that returns a stream of a certain type that creates a lazily Kincannon
and stream whose elements are all the elements of the first stream, followed by all the elements of
the second stream.
They can see that can get two arguments.
The next method is empty.
That also creates a stream of a specific type, returns an empty sequential stream you've got to generate,
which takes a player as a parameter that returns a stream of a specific type T an angle brackets that
returns an infinite sequential unordered stream where each element is generated by the provided supplier.
We've got iterate with three arguments there, Type T has the seed, a predicate and a unary operator
that returns a stream of a specific type T here, T an angle brackets.
So that returns a sequential order stream produced by iterative application of the given next function
to an initial element conditioned on satisfying the given his next predicate.
This was introduced in Javani and they've got an overloaded version of it that takes two parameters.
The seed of type T and a unitary operator that also returns a stream of specific type a stream in angle
brackets.
This returns an infinite sequential order stream produced by iterative application of a function if
that's the operator to an initial element seed producing a stream consisting of you can see the seed
then if seed, f, f seed, etc..
We got two overloaded versions of the of method, the first one takes one argument of typed returns,
a stream of typed tinoco brackets, so that returns a sequential stream containing a single element.
Then the second version was t as a list of values here.
So multiple values.
In other words, this also returns a stream of a specific type, an angle bracket and returns a sequential
order.
Whose elements are the specified values?
The last one is of nullable, excepting a perimeter of type T.
There are also returns a stream of a specific type tinoco bracket, and specifically it returns a sequential
stream containing a single element, if not now, otherwise returns an empty stream that was also introduced
in Java nine.
All right, so, you know, know how to create a stream, what?
Well, there's two types of operations on stream intermediate operations and terminal operations streams
and lazy mini computation on the source data is only performed when the terminal operation is initiated
and source elements are only included in operations if the elements are required for the end result.
I stated in the introduction that a stream pipeline consists of the following, a source such as the
collection and I or database source on which to perform a query zero to many intermediate operations
which transform a stream into another stream.
Thirdly, one terminal operation which executes the stream pipeline and produces a result.
So let's first look at terminal operations.
Nothing will ever happen on a stream without an invocation of a terminal operation, at which point
the stream is opened, data is collected from the source, intermediate operations are executed and
the work in the pipeline completed.
Once completed, the stream is closed and you cannot do anything else with it.
Noted, if your source has infinite, there may be no guarantee that the terminal operation will terminate
the process or processes.
The terminal operations are listed below.
I'll be discussing the usage of all of these in later videos, but for the purpose of this discussion,
you just need to know that any of these are terminal and are the keys to the execution of a stream pipeline.
So looking at the terminal operations by top, the search is all match transformer's collect reductionist
count and the processes for each next search, any match transformer's to array reduction MEXT and the
processes for each sorted.
Then we've got find any where the reduction is.
Men find first, but the reduction is reduced and we've got non-match.
You can set up a strange source, you can apply zero to many intermediate operations, but nothing happens
to one of the above operations is applied to the strain.
Any operation that attempts to use the stream after a terminal operation will result in an illegal state
exception.
All right.
So let's see in the video here.
We'll start looking at terminal operations in code in the next video.